Codenames is a game of guessing which code names (words) in a set are 
related to a hint-word given by another player. Players split into two
teams: red and blue. One player of each team is selected as the team's
spymaster; the others are field operatives. Twenty-five code name 
cards, each bearing a word, are laid out in a 5×5 rectangular grid, in
random order. A number of these words represent red agents, a number 
represent blue agents, one represents an assassin, and the others 
represent innocent bystanders. The teams' spymasters are given a 
randomly-dealt map card showing a 5×5 grid of 25 squares of various 
colors, each corresponding to one of the code name cards on the table.
Teams take turns. On each turn, the appropriate spymaster gives a 
verbal hint about the words on the respective cards. Each hint may 
only consist of one single word and a number. The spymaster gives a 
hint that is related to as many of the words on his/her own agents' 
cards as possible, but not to any others – lest they accidentally lead
their team to choose a card representing an innocent bystander, a 
friendly agent, or the assassin. The hint's word can be chosen freely,
as long as it is not (and does not contain) any of the words on the 
code name cards still showing at that time. Code name cards are 
covered as guesses are made. The hint's number tells the field 
operatives how many words in the grid are related to the word of the 
clue. It also determines the maximum number of guesses the field 
operatives may make on that turn, which is the hint's number plus one.
Field operatives must make at least one guess per turn, risking a 
wrong guess and its consequences. They may also end their turn 
voluntarily at any point thereafter. After a spymaster gives the hint 
with its word and number, their field operatives make guesses about 
which code name cards bear words related to the hint and point them 
out, one at a time. When a code name card is pointed out, the 
spymaster covers that card with an appropriate identity card – a blue
agent card, a red agent card, an innocent bystander card, or the 
assassin card – as indicated on the spymasters' map of the grid. If 
the assassin is pointed out, the game ends immediately, with the team
who identified him losing. If an agent of the other team is pointed 
out, the turn ends immediately, and that other team is also one agent
closer to winning. If an innocent bystander is pointed out, 
the turn simply ends. The game ends when all of one team's agents are
identified  (winning the game for that team), or when one team has 
identified the assassin (losing the game).